Song of Conquest - Gamepaly Analysis

Song of Conquest is a turn-based strategy game inspired by classics like Heroes of Might and Magic II & III. 
It combines kingdom management, tactical battles, and exploration with a fantasy setting presented 
in detailed pixel art. The player takes control of a "Wielder", a hero who leads armies, captures resources, 
builds settlements, and fights for dominance. 
The game’s signature mechanic is the "Essence" system, which connects unit composition to spellcasting in combat, 
creating strategic depth and synergy between troops and magic.

My love to Song of Conquest is present due to resemblance to one of mine favourite games of childhood, Heroes of Might and Magic III. 
However it inovates this genre by adding interesting systems, making the strategic depth of the game even deeper.
Even the aesthetics and sound design gives nice experince from the game.


Satisfaction

I find it most satisfying when my army composition and magic synergies finally click. 
When I manage to set up a devastating spell combo using Essence collected from various units. 
Another great experience is winning a close tactical battle after a long campaign,
however the most challenging battles often are at the begining of the scenario, 
where our "Wielder" is not yet well developed.

I must also say that I found very satisfying sound design. As a best example 
we can take the final hit in the battle, where we zoom into the finishing hit and player hear the victory sound.


Learning

The game has difficulty settings so its single-player mode is very welcoming to beginners as well as experienced players.
This means that you can explore the game in pace you want to. Making the game not frontloaded 
as the mechanics come as you explore the scenarios and you do not need to learn every single mechanic to successfully finish the map.
To get the basics of the game is not hard. You basically collect resources from world, build buildings in settlements 
and battle enemies base on their relative power. However as you level as a player you start to come up with
synergistic army compositions and spell compositions. You start to learn how to level your "Wielders", so they can be efficient in his specific role. 

However the multi-player is more accessible to experienced players as you need to know the meta, exact build patterns for settlements, leveling armies and so on.
And you need to take your turns quickly otherwise the game would never end.


Efficiency

The games captures my attention mainly thanks to strategic tension and its aesthetics. 
The other thing I liked were the story campaigns. Even though the storytelling was not any masterpiece, 
they were intertwined in a nice way. And the world of the game was nicely pictured by them.

The weak point are definetely big scenarios where managing many settelments and heroes is too tedious.


Immersion

The immersion of the game is definetely built on its unique art style. 
I also found really immersive the world thanks to playing through every campaign 
and getting to know the world and motivations of every faction. 
Which is the starting point from which your imaginations can kick in and developed on it.

In campaign it could be little bit immersion breaking when you get strong too early by knowing the game too well.
You know story tells how you are scrambling in the mud, but your hero can destroy stacks of enemies by one spell.

And of course little bit distracting is user interface. I guess that there could be option to hide it.


Motivation

I had two biggest motivation to play the game. 
To learn the its strategies to some depth and to explore its world and stories.
I think every player wants to explore at least every faction and its style of play 
even if they does not want to think about the strategies of the game any deeper.


Emotion

I think biggest emotion for every player of Heroes of Might and Magic III is nostalgia.
Other emotions I felt during playing were definetely Exitement, Frustration, Happiness, Boredom.
Happines with myself and mine strategy when spells and armies were cleaving through difficult enemies.
Frustration when my damage roles during close battles were unlucky.
Exitement when the story unfolded suprising plot or when there suddenly appeared character I played in other campaign.
Boredom while playing large sceanrios and I needed to click through all my settlements and heroes actions.


Socialization

I did not socialize with noone while playing, but there is community playing multiplayer, sharing strategy tips and so on.
The game is also opened to create community campaigns and scenarios. So there is also a community which rather makes new stories for the game and other players.